========================== About the program =======================

This is a BTree implementation programmed in JAVA as an accomplishment of the Lab Assignment 1 , CSD 307  

========================= Configuration and Setup ==================

Java SE is freely available from the link http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html (jdk installation)
Download a version based on your operating system.
Follow the instruction in the given link to run the program: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/environment/paths.html

============================ Introduction ==========================

The program is an implementation of BTree which is a self-balancing tree data structure that keeps data sorted 
and allows searches, sequential access, insertions, and deletions in logarithmic time. The B-tree is a generalization
of a binary search tree in that a node can have more than two children. Tis includes functions like inserting numbers
in a batch or one by one, search them, to see the structure and retrieve the semantics of the BTree.
B-trees are balanced trees that are optimized for situations when part or all of the tree must be
maintained in secondary storage such as a magnetic disk. Since disk accesses are expensive (time
consuming) operations, a b-tree tries to minimize the number of disk accesses. For example, a b-tree with a
height of 2 and a branching factor of 1001 can store over one billion keys but requires at most two disk
accesses to search for any node. 


============================= Features ===============================

The program can be executed in two modes: test and user. Test mode provides the ability to insert about 1 million numbers at 
a time being randomly generated by the program. Tester can specify the order and efficiency of the Btree required and can
see the performance an semantics of the BTree structure created. The user mode allows the user to enter the integers one by
one or in a batch in the BTree structure. User is asked to specify the order and the efficiency required by the user. 
User can search, get a look of the structure and get the semantics of the BTree.


============================ Inputs and Outputs ======================

1) Insert function: Expects an integer to be input by the user and returns true/false based on the fact if it
   was successfully inserted or not.
2) Search function:Expects an integer to be searched and returns true/false based on the fact if the number was found
   and prints the contect of the node along with depth at which it is found.
3) Print BTree function: prints the structure of the tree.
4) Height/Size function: returns the number of integers inserted along with height achieved till that instant.
5) The Performance function: returns the time taken to insert/search the values.


=========================== Created By ===============================

Saketh Vallakatla 1410110352
Pranjal Mathur    1410110296
Prerna.           1410110306








 


